Account docs (#56)
OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts: docs/Account.md

## Table of Contents

* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
* [Standard Interface](#standard-interface)
* [Keys, signatures and signers](#keys--signatures-and-signers)
    + [Signer utility](#signer-utility)
* [Message format](#message-format)
* [API Specification](#api-specification)
    - [`get_public_key`](#-get-public-key-)
    - [`get_address`](#-get-address-)
    - [`get_nonce`](#-get-nonce-)
    - [`set_public_key`](#-set-public-key-)
    - [`is_valid_signature`](#-is-valid-signature-)
    - [`execute`](#-execute-)
* [Extending the Account contract](#extending-the-account-contract)
* [L1 scape hatch mechanism](#l1-scape-hatch-mechanism)
* [Paying for gas](#paying-for-gas)
* [Future work](#future-work)

## Quickstart

The general workflow is three simple steps: 
1. Account contract is deployed to StarkNet
2. Account is initialized with its own address (_temporary until `this.address` is available_)
3. Signed transactions are sent to the Account contract which validates and executes them

This is how it looks today in Python:

```python
from starkware.starknet.testing.starknet import Starknet

> signer = Signer(123456789987654321)

Author: it is 1..9 9..1 :D

> 
> # 1. Deploy Account
> starknet = await Starknet.empty()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
starknet = await Starknet.empty()

# 1. Deploy Account
```

Notice that although the current implementation works only with StarkKeys, support for Ethereum ECDSA algorithm is expected to be supported in the future.

### Signer utility

[Signer.py](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/8739a1c2c28b1fe0b6ed7a10a66aa7171da41326/tests/utils/Signer.py) is used to perform transactions on a given Account, crafting the tx and managing nonces.

It exposes two functions:

- `def sign(message_hash)` receives a hash and returns a signed message of it
- `def send_transaction(account, to, selector_name, calldata, nonce=None)` returns a promise of a signed transaction, ready to be sent.

To use Signer, pass a private key when instantiating the class:

```python
from utils.Signer import Signer

signer = Signer(123456789987654321)
```

Then send transactions with `send_transaction` method.

```python
await signer.send_transaction(account, contract_address, 'method_name', [])
```

> ## Message format

Reviewer: I think the document needs a definition of "message" prior to this section.

The idea is for all user intent to be encoded into a `Message` as follows:

```c#
struct Message:
    member sender: felt
    member to: felt
    member selector: felt
    member calldata: felt*

>     member calldata_size: felt

Reviewer: This is not about documentation, but I was under the impression the convention was to do length first followed by the pointer. Like `signature_len, signature` and `calldata_len, calldata`. Doesn't this go against that convention? Also size vs len.

Author: discussed offline

    member nonce: felt
end
```

Where:

- `sender` is the Account contract address. It is included to prevent transaction replays in case there's another Account contract controlled by the same public keys.
- `to` address of the target contract of the message
- `selector` is the selector of the function to be called on the target contract
- `calldata` is an array representing the function parameters

> - `nonce` is an unique identifier of this message to prevent transaction replays

Reviewer: I'd mention the fact that the nonce is incremental here.

Or if you want to update the Account's L1 address on the `AccountRegistry` contract, you would 

```python
await signer.send_transaction(account, registry.contract_address, 'set_L1_address', [NEW_ADDRESS])
```

You can read more about how messages are structured and hashed in the [Account message scheme  discussion](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/discussions/24).

## API Specification

This in a nutshell is the Account contract public API:

```cairo
func get_public_key() -> (res: felt)
func get_address() -> (res: felt)
func get_nonce() -> (res: felt)

func set_public_key(new_public_key: felt)
func initialize(_address: felt)

func is_valid_signature(hash: felt,
        signature_len: felt,
        signature: felt*
    )

func execute(
        to: felt,
        selector: felt,
        calldata_len: felt,
        calldata: felt*,
        nonce: felt
    ) -> (response : felt):
```

> Notice we're omitting `initialize` from the API spec since we consider it a temporary artifact of the lack of `this.address` and we hope to remove it as soon as possible.

#### `get_public_key`

Returns the public key associated with the Account contract.

##### Parameters:

```
None

> ```

Reviewer: I'd remove code formatting here. I thought it meant the `None` value in Python.

##### Returns:
```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*

> (implicit) range_check_ptr

Reviewer: Would it be bad to remove these from the docs? Do they mean anything relevant to the person reading?

If not, can we at least switch the order so the actual return values are featured first?

public_key: felt
```

#### `get_address`

Returns the contract address of the Account.

##### Parameters:

    None

##### Returns:

```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr

contract_address: felt
```

#### `get_nonce`

Returns the current transaction nonce for the Account.

##### Parameters:
```
None
```
##### Returns:

```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr

> ```

Reviewer: I think the nonce return value is missing here.

> ```

Reviewer: I think the nonce return value is missing here.

#### `set_public_key`

Sets the public key that will control this Account. It can be used to rotate keys for security, change them in case of compromised keys or even transferring ownership of the account.

##### Parameters:
```
public_key: felt
```

##### Returns:
```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr
```

#### `is_valid_signature`

> This function is inspired in [EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) and checks whether a given signature is valid, otherwise it reverts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function is inspired by [EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) and checks whether a given signature is valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

##### Parameters:
```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr : HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr
(implicit) ecdsa_ptr: SignatureBuiltin*

hash: felt
signature_len: felt
signature: felt*
```

##### Returns:
```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr
(implicit) ecdsa_ptr: SignatureBuiltin*
```

#### `execute`

> This is the main an sole entrypoint to interact with the Account contract. It:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the only external entrypoint to interact with the Account contract. It:
```

If not accepting my suggestion, there is a typo in "an".

1. Confirms that the Account has been initialized
2. Takes the input and builds a [Message](#message-format) with it

> 3. Validates the transaction signature

Reviewer: We should probably mention that the nonce is validated too.

Author: Well the nonce is part of the message but I'll be explicit.

4. Increments the nonce
5. Calls the target contract with the intended function selector and calldata parameters
6. Forwards the contract call response data as return value

##### Parameters:
```
to: felt
selector: felt
calldata_len: felt
calldata: felt*
signature_len: felt
signature: felt*
```

> Notice that the current signature scheme expects a 2-element array like `[sig_r, sig_s]`.

##### Returns:
```
(implicit) syscall_ptr : felt*
(implicit) pedersen_ptr: HashBuiltin*
(implicit) range_check_ptr
response: felt
```

## Extending the Account contract

There's no clear contract extensibility pattern for Cairo smart contracts yet. In the meantime the best way to extend our contracts is copypasting and modifying them at your own risk. Since `execute` relies on it, we suggest changing how `is_valid_signature` works to explore different signature validation schemes such as multisig, or some guardian logic like in [Argent's account](https://github.com/argentlabs/argent-contracts-starknet/blob/de5654555309fa76160ba3d7393d32d2b12e7349/contracts/ArgentAccount.cairo).

## L1 scape hatch mechanism

*[unknown, to be defined]*

## Paying for gas

*[unknown, to be defined]*

> ## Future work

Reviewer: I honestly wouldn't include this list here. It will get out of date. The issue tracker is a better place for the information.
